So we saw that Spring made it very easy to integrate
JSON into its API with annotations.
But it's not the only system that offers such capabilities.
A more lightweight and standardized approach is offered by JAX-RS,
which is what we'll be looking at here.
So JAX-RS is the official standard for what its
designers call RESTful web services.
Now REST, or representation of state transfer,
is an approach for dealing with server-side objects and treating them
as resources that can be manipulated over URLs.
Most people don't implement by the book web services using JAX-RS.
They kind of use it for JSON plus HTTP as a communication protocol.
Now, despite the confusing name,
JAX-RS is a useful system that helps us build official services.
In fact, it's included in the official Java EE or Jakarta EE,
these days, standard from version 6.
0 onwards.
Being a standard, JAX-RS doesn't have one implementation.
Apache, CXF, RESTEasy, WebSphere, and WebLogic,
and many others offer implementations for its approach.
In these examples, we will be using the reference implementation, Jersey.
It is very popular as an alternative to Spring web and
offers a similar set of benefits, a declarative,
annotation-driven approach to web services that are easily integrated with JSON.
It's also used by the popular Dropwizard framework that
integrates Jersey with Jackson for you.
So, in order to write web services with Jersey,
you need to take a similar approach to Spring web.
The class that you receive the method invocations on is
annotated with an @Path annotation, taking the URL to bind it to as a parameter.
If you want a method to receive an HTTP POST request,
then simply use an @POST annotation.
As mentioned earlier, we won't be going over the full API of JAX-RS here,
just the minimal amount of information required to
understand how JSON integrates with it.
Okay, so how do we consume JSON with Jersey?
Again, like Spring, the approach taken is to annotate methods declaratively.
In Jersey,
you need to be a little bit more explicit than in Spring
about what is consumed and produced.
It's still pretty easy though.
Simply add an @Consumes annotation to tell Jersey what the MediaType is to use,
so, APPLICATION_JSON in the case of JSON.
This will bind the body from your POST request to a parameter.
So here we've got a loanApplication parameter on the public API method and that
gets deserialized from the JSON in the POST requests body.
For producing JSON, it's also very easy.
This time you use an @Produces annotation instead of a @Consumes annotation.
The annotation takes the MediaType, again, as a parameter to work with.
So we've used APPLICATION_JSON here.
Jersey, itself, contains its own response class that your method should return.
The Response object has a method to set the body to return.
That body can be a Java POJO. And if you set the MediaType correctly, it will get serialized to JSON.